tools/slack/user-management.md, before:

---
title: Slack user management
redirect_from:
  - /slack-admin/
questions:
  - admins-slack
---

[_Back to Slack page_](../)

This page overviews the administrative tasks done to manage our Slack account at TTS.

## Adding TTS staff

The Talent team will fill out a [user request ticket](https://gsa.servicenowservices.com/sp?id=sc_category&sys_id=f9874e76db5003400dc9ff621f96190d&catalog_id=e0d08b13c3330100c8b837659bba8fb4) for people when they join TTS.

## Offboarding

Slack users need to be offboarded in the following situations:

- Someone leaving TTS
- A partner who's employment/engagement is ending
- A contractor who is no longer supporting TTS

In all of these cases, [#people-ops](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/people-ops/) / the engagement manager / the COR should **fill out [a user modification ticket](https://gsa.servicenowservices.com/sp?id=sc_category&sys_id=f9874e76db5003400dc9ff621f96190d&catalog_id=e0d08b13c3330100c8b837659bba8fb4)**.

An admin will then do one of the following:

- **[Convert them to a Single-Channel Guest.](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/218124397-Change-a-team-member-s-role)**
  - Put them in one of the following channels (as appropriate):
    - [#alumni](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/alumni/) (former Full Members only, but treated as a public channel)
    - One of the `-public` channels (their pick)
  - [Disable their 2FA](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/212221668-Require-two-factor-authentication-for-your-team).
    - ...unless you know they were using their personal device for 2FA — we don't want them to be locked out.
  - [Change their email](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/225531168-Change-a-team-member-s-email-address) to their personal address

\*NOTE: When a TTS Slack user is converted to a Single-channel user, they maintain access to their direct message chat history but are unable to search for or create new direct messages with folks that they've never messaged before. Unless another channel is specified, the only channel that will still be accessible is #alumni.

- **[Deactivate their account.](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/204475027-Deactivate-a-team-member-s-account)**

If they were a partner, the admin will also set their `Downgraded/disabled on` date in [the user request spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1weEbuD1RUqtwTiHCT_roD6tvKkBiQL5nkLe8btxyKHA/edit#gid=1249016991).

## Slack admins

Here are the resources used by Slack Admins to track and manage Slack accounts:

- [GSA IT's Slack administration guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ncHqriv2CnsZQ7brrZ3mlLCK_i-XuvW-kRpXb0fP0t4/edit)
- [GSA IT's Slack ServiceNow tickets](https://gsa.servicenowservices.com/sp?id=sc_category&sys_id=f9874e76db5003400dc9ff621f96190d&catalog_id=e0d08b13c3330100c8b837659bba8fb4)
- [Delegation of functionality](https://docs.google.com/a/gsa.gov/document/d/1gDuScce7R6q6NqQPPS3cFe3dZFYO_ZEp60dmuzVDYwg/edit?usp=sharing)
- Requests for approved emoji are fulfilled from [#approved-emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C024G4VLWGM)

## Custom emoji

[All custom emoji must be reviewed](https://github.com/18f/tts-tech-portfolio/issues/1077) by TTS staff.
You can add new emoji through [the emoji request process]({{site.baseurl}}/tools/slack/guidelines/#custom-emoji).
The overall process looks like this.

1. Users request new emoji from [#emoji-showcase](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C0X2T36AY)
1. TTS reviews the request in [#admins-emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C024EBDS1NC)
1. Approved emoji are routed to [#approved-emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C024G4VLWGM) for Slack admins
1. Slack admins [create the approved emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/customize/emoji) in the Slack workspace
1. Users are notified the new emoji is ready for use

Ideas for automating the creation of approved emoji are discussed in
[18f/tts-tech-portfolio#1077](https://github.com/18f/tts-tech-portfolio/issues/1077).

### Approval criteria

TTS staff in [#admins-emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C024EBDS1NC) are
responsible for reviewing new emoji. Emoji are covered by the same rules that
govern our behavior at work, including the [GSA IT Rules of
Behavior](<https://www.gsa.gov/directive/gsa-information-technology-(it)-general-rules-of-behavior->),
[GSA Policy Statement on Harassment, Including Sexual and
Non-sexual](<https://www.gsa.gov/directive/general-services-administration-(gsa)-policy-statement-on-harassment,-including-sexual-and-non-sexual->),
[TTS Code of Conduct]({{site.baseurl}}/code-of-conduct/), and ethics
rules. TTS staff should review emoji requests with these rules in mind.
Submitters should be thoughtful and mindful about emoji submissions, and try to
ensure they're in line with our values of diversity and inclusion.

If you'd like to help review emoji requests, please reach out to
[#tts-tech-portfolio](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/CNW3GL70S).

### Slack admins

Creation of emoji requires admin permissions. Once emoji are approved by TTS,
the request is handed-off to the Slack admins for creation. Once Slack admins
[create the approved emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/customize/emoji), they
should click "I have created the emoji" to complete the request.

### Slack Workflow

Requests for new emoji use Slack's [Workflow Builder](https://slack.com/help/articles/360035692513-Guide-to-Workflow-Builder)
feature. You can download the Workflow to share with other Slack workspaces. As
a Workflow Collaborator in Slack, click TTS > Tools > Workflow Builder. In the
Workflow Builder, select the menu from the Workflow you want to download. Click
"Download workflow file". This JSON file can be uploaded into another workspace
by clicking the "Import" button from the Workflow Builder.

Reach out to [#tts-tech-portfolio](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/CNW3GL70S)
for Collaborator access to the Custom Emoji Request workflow.

Commit message:

Requiring consent for images of people

tools/slack/user-management.md, after:

---
title: Slack user management
redirect_from:
  - /slack-admin/
questions:
  - admins-slack
---

[_Back to Slack page_](../)

This page overviews the administrative tasks done to manage our Slack account at TTS.

## Adding TTS staff

The Talent team will fill out a [user request ticket](https://gsa.servicenowservices.com/sp?id=sc_category&sys_id=f9874e76db5003400dc9ff621f96190d&catalog_id=e0d08b13c3330100c8b837659bba8fb4) for people when they join TTS.

## Offboarding

Slack users need to be offboarded in the following situations:

- Someone leaving TTS
- A partner who's employment/engagement is ending
- A contractor who is no longer supporting TTS

In all of these cases, [#people-ops](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/people-ops/) / the engagement manager / the COR should **fill out [a user modification ticket](https://gsa.servicenowservices.com/sp?id=sc_category&sys_id=f9874e76db5003400dc9ff621f96190d&catalog_id=e0d08b13c3330100c8b837659bba8fb4)**.

An admin will then do one of the following:

- **[Convert them to a Single-Channel Guest.](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/218124397-Change-a-team-member-s-role)**
  - Put them in one of the following channels (as appropriate):
    - [#alumni](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/alumni/) (former Full Members only, but treated as a public channel)
    - One of the `-public` channels (their pick)
  - [Disable their 2FA](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/212221668-Require-two-factor-authentication-for-your-team).
    - ...unless you know they were using their personal device for 2FA — we don't want them to be locked out.
  - [Change their email](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/225531168-Change-a-team-member-s-email-address) to their personal address

\*NOTE: When a TTS Slack user is converted to a Single-channel user, they maintain access to their direct message chat history but are unable to search for or create new direct messages with folks that they've never messaged before. Unless another channel is specified, the only channel that will still be accessible is #alumni.

- **[Deactivate their account.](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/204475027-Deactivate-a-team-member-s-account)**

If they were a partner, the admin will also set their `Downgraded/disabled on` date in [the user request spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1weEbuD1RUqtwTiHCT_roD6tvKkBiQL5nkLe8btxyKHA/edit#gid=1249016991).

## Slack admins

Here are the resources used by Slack Admins to track and manage Slack accounts:

- [GSA IT's Slack administration guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ncHqriv2CnsZQ7brrZ3mlLCK_i-XuvW-kRpXb0fP0t4/edit)
- [GSA IT's Slack ServiceNow tickets](https://gsa.servicenowservices.com/sp?id=sc_category&sys_id=f9874e76db5003400dc9ff621f96190d&catalog_id=e0d08b13c3330100c8b837659bba8fb4)
- [Delegation of functionality](https://docs.google.com/a/gsa.gov/document/d/1gDuScce7R6q6NqQPPS3cFe3dZFYO_ZEp60dmuzVDYwg/edit?usp=sharing)
- Requests for approved emoji are fulfilled from [#approved-emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C024G4VLWGM)

## Custom emoji

[All custom emoji must be reviewed](https://github.com/18f/tts-tech-portfolio/issues/1077) by TTS staff.
You can add new emoji through [the emoji request process]({{site.baseurl}}/tools/slack/guidelines/#custom-emoji).
The overall process looks like this.

1. Users request new emoji from [#emoji-showcase](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C0X2T36AY)
1. TTS reviews the request in [#admins-emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C024EBDS1NC)
1. Approved emoji are routed to [#approved-emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C024G4VLWGM) for Slack admins
1. Slack admins [create the approved emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/customize/emoji) in the Slack workspace
1. Users are notified the new emoji is ready for use

Ideas for automating the creation of approved emoji are discussed in
[18f/tts-tech-portfolio#1077](https://github.com/18f/tts-tech-portfolio/issues/1077).

### Approval criteria

TTS staff in [#admins-emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/C024EBDS1NC) are
responsible for reviewing new emoji. Emoji are covered by the same rules that
govern our behavior at work, including the [GSA IT Rules of
Behavior](<https://www.gsa.gov/directive/gsa-information-technology-(it)-general-rules-of-behavior->),
[GSA Policy Statement on Harassment, Including Sexual and
Non-sexual](<https://www.gsa.gov/directive/general-services-administration-(gsa)-policy-statement-on-harassment,-including-sexual-and-non-sexual->),
[TTS Code of Conduct]({{site.baseurl}}/code-of-conduct/), and ethics
rules. TTS staff should review emoji requests with these rules in mind.

Submitters should be thoughtful and mindful about emoji submissions, and try to
ensure they're in line with our values of diversity and inclusion.

**Emoji of TTS members' faces, pets, and the like**: Before submitting emoji of
TTS members' faces, pets, etc., submitters should ask for consent before submitting.
For these emoji, approvers **MUST** ask for explicit consent from the person
whose image is being used.

If you'd like to help review emoji requests, please reach out to
[#tts-tech-portfolio](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/CNW3GL70S).

### Slack admins

Creation of emoji requires admin permissions. Once emoji are approved by TTS,
the request is handed-off to the Slack admins for creation. Once Slack admins
[create the approved emoji](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/customize/emoji), they
should click "I have created the emoji" to complete the request.

### Slack Workflow

Requests for new emoji use Slack's [Workflow Builder](https://slack.com/help/articles/360035692513-Guide-to-Workflow-Builder)
feature. You can download the Workflow to share with other Slack workspaces. As
a Workflow Collaborator in Slack, click TTS > Tools > Workflow Builder. In the
Workflow Builder, select the menu from the Workflow you want to download. Click
"Download workflow file". This JSON file can be uploaded into another workspace
by clicking the "Import" button from the Workflow Builder.

Reach out to [#tts-tech-portfolio](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/archives/CNW3GL70S)
for Collaborator access to the Custom Emoji Request workflow.
